---
layout: post
title: Blog Post # 1 (stats vs data science)!
---

My dream job using this masters degree in statistics is to work in analytics for a sports team (preferably basketball or football). That being said, though, the number of professional and high-level NCAA teams is not growing whereas the demand for data scientists does seem to be consistently growing. Therefore, I see myself very likely getting into data science because that is where the jobs are likely to be. I would then try to do some volunteer or consulting work for a sports team to perhaps eventually break into that area. I just do not think it is realistic for me to think I could go get a job as a Director of Analytics or even an analyst for some NBA team right off the bat.
I like the description of data scientists that is offered in the assigned article "Data Scientists vs Statisticians," which is that they are practicioners that follow a particular process pretty closely. Specifically this is the "data science process," which consists of several steps that are pretty straightforward to understand. These steps are, again per the same article: "data ingest, data transformation, exploratory data analysis, model selection, model evaluation, and data storytelling. I interpret this process as meaning that data scientists take in data into their chosen analytical framework, transform it if neccessary in order to do some initial analysis of the data before selecting what appears to be the most appropriate model based on that initial analysis. evaluating the predictive performance of that model and then finally wrapping the analysis into a narrative that can be presented to key business leaders in a way that is understandable, even for those who do not have a strong technical background. One obvoius different between data science and statistics is that data science tends to deal with much larger data sets that are imported for analysis whereas a statistician might aquare data from an experiment or survey. Another difference is that statisticians are much more focused on quantifying the uncertainty associated with their calculations/estimations. Data scientists are, rather, primarily foccused on prediction. I think the biggest area of similarity between data science and statistics is simply that the "science" in data science is in fact statistics - statistics is in the background of virtually everything a data scientist does. I think this fact is what leads critics such as Nate Silver to cliaim that data science is nothing but a fancy word for applied statistics. I do not buy this argument though - I think that the usefulness and impact of data science is sufficient to warrant its own term.


title: Blog Post # 2 (R versus other programming languages)!

I may have nearly the least programming experience of anyone taking this course because I lobbied to take it before taking the prerequisite course or courses. I simply found that the classes I had taken in the program so far utilized R so much that I needed a solid foundation in it.  That being said, when I was an undergrad I took some classes in Java and some classes in HTML. I see similarities and differences with R and both of those languages. I am glad that R has some of the object oriented attributes that Java has. The idea that everything that exists in R is an object and everything that happens with R is a function is very familiar to me from my time studying Java. I see the biggest overlap between R and HTML being in a lot of the way Rmarkdown works. The notion of there being a header and then subheaders being the foundation of the heirchichal organization of the text with additional words designating various aspects of formatting is very famililar from HTML. The thing that R is totally different with respect to (and I see this as a blessing and a curse at the same time) is the fact that in R you can do everything at least two different ways. That is good from the standpoint of less rigidity/ almost less memorization of syntax because if you type what you want to do in an organized and consistent way you can almost guess one of the valid ways of coding up what you are trying to code up. The downside obviously is that there is no one to tell you just which particular way of doing a thing one should actually learn. Also, it is not the case that packages are consistent in terms of which syntax they use - even sometimes within one package! I'd say anyone who is being honest, even the authors of some of these packages, would readily admit that one syntax is enough for a particular package. Finaly, there is one aspect in which R is straightfowardly left wanting: by all accounts it is simply a slow language. There is no tradeoff here: it would be nothing but positive if R were a little (or a lot) faster. Yes there are ways of making R faster than it would otherwise be by coding things up thoughtfully, but this doesn't change the fact that it is sluggish. Overall, I think R is very fair to the user from a learning standpoint, probably falling for me between HTML and Java in terms of ease of learning. That is I think that R is a little tougher than HTML and not as hard as Java. I will admit, though, that the course I took in Java is kind of the "weed out" course for CS majors at Stanford so it is made intentionally hard.

